## CS330A1
# Storage Device Comparison

## External Research
For my Assignment I chose the topic of comparing Hard Disk Drives to Solid State Drives. I created a website that compares the two forms of storage with a check your learning quiz at the end to ensure users understand the information. I chose the HDD vs SSD topic because it was one not mentioned much in class, and I felt that it was an interesting topic to expand on. This meant a lot of my learning was from external research to ensure the topic was covered fully. Multiple websites and videos were consulted to further the learning of the website, please see the list of links at the end of the document. 

## GitHub
Attached is a zip file of the code so that it can be downloaded. In addition, my website is posted on GitHub so that it can be accessed on mobile. There is responsive web design involved with the site that requires a phone to view the changes. Responsive Web Design will be explained further later on but for now here is the link to access the site: https://kporemba.github.io/CS330A1/home.html. 
Beginning with the choice of making a website rather than an infographic, I wanted to create a project more complex than something like a poster. I wanted to challenge myself by creating a quiz online to test the users learning which is something I have not done before. After lots of research, I was able to successfully figure it out. The quiz portion of the site will be explained later. 

## Homepage
The home page is where all of the sites learning material is held. There is a general description of the two types of storage at the beginning as well as an introduction to the check your learning quiz. The main part of the site are the two columns, Hard Disk Drives on the left and Solid-State Drives on the right. The design choice of having two columns is meant to help the user learn the content in comparison to the other. By having the two columns beside each other allows the user to read the same topic for both drives to easily see the differences and similarities between the two. The headings (how it works & reading and writing) are approximately aligned to ensure the body text is always aligned for the user to read. Overall, this technique is effective when trying to learn the similarities and differences between the two because the information is presented clearly. 

Images and Gifs are used within the descriptions of the Solid-State Drive and Hard Disk Drive to further explain how they work. The HDD has an image from the slides that explain the specifics of the HDD to allow the user to reference the topics/words learned in the text to the images. For example, they can see the actuator arm and the platter in the image and relate what they learned in the text to the image. Additionally, the use of a gif was meant to show how the HDD works. Because the spinning platter is the core of what makes an HDD work, I felt that it was important to show the action in order for the user to understand the concept fully. Moving onto SSDs, it was hard to find relevant images because the devices does not have moving parts. So instead of showing the internal pieces, I showed the core technology that makes the SSD work – the NAND gate. This is a more complex concept, but the addition of the image helps the user understand the concept with examples. As well there is use of an Icon in the tab as well as a title to make the website feel completer and more relevant. This is a very nice touch that I like to have on all of my projects. 

## Tables
Once the user has gone through the sites main content, they reach two tables that give them a quick version of what they learned. The first table is very similar to one of the sites I did my research on which is why there is a reference under the table. Because of this, I wanted to create a more comprehensive and in-depth version of the table which is why there is a secondary table underneath that explain the benefits and drawbacks of the storage devices. The second table is meant to give a more relative approach to the subject, making it easy to compare Hard Disk Drives to Solid State Drives. These tables were coded by me using <table> tag and styled in CSS. 
	
## The Quiz
The requirement of having a question/exercise section made me explore different ways of incorporating directly into the site.  Through my research, I decided creating a quiz would be the best way for the user to learn about the content and be able to check their answers. Links to the quiz are at the top and bottom of the site, with the “check your learning” button. Once on the quiz page, the title remains consistent with the homepage. A subheading directs the user to answer all questions in order to get your score, as you cannot submit the quiz without selecting all answers. The user then goes through all 5 questions answering them based on the information they learned on the homepage. Once the user is complete, they hit the submit button turning the questions red or green based on if their answer was correct.  Additionally, there is a message that is written under the submit button stating how many the user got right. The goal is that the user would re-take the quiz if they got answers wrong, updating the message at the bottom. The user’s attempts are recorded there, allowing them to see their progress. 

## Responsive Web Design
In addition to making this website for desktop use, I wanted to make it accessible on mobile in a legible manner. This involved the use of responsive web design. To achieve this, I created specific styling in my CSS to reflect changes when the browser width is less than 600px.  Key changes between desktop and mobile are: two columns switch into one, font size increases, and tables become smaller. The choice of two columns for the websites content is ideal for viewing on the desktop version, if it were to be the same on mobile the text would be too small to read. Therefore, the mobile version moves the right column (SSD) underneath the left column (HDD) to allow the user to view the content easily. Additionally, the font size on mobile changes to fit the users screen. The title tags (h1/h2/h3) become smaller so that they don’t take up a lot of the screen, and the p tags become slightly larger for easy reading. The tables also respond to the smaller screen, fitting the width of the smaller screen. Overall, the implementation of responsive web design is meant to improve user experience on the site and provide a new way of looking at the site. 

## LINKS
https://www.electronics-tutorials.ws/boolean/bool_4.html
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YQEjGKYXjw8
https://www.crucial.com/usa/en/ssd-vs-hdd
